README.md, before:

#ProjectSamsungCoursera
=====================
This repo contains a single R script 'run_analysis.R' written as a project for the Coursera 'Getting and Cleaning Data' course.

The script assumes that there is a folder/directory called 'UCI HAR Dataset' in the user's working directory containing the file structure and contents downloaded from the following location provided by the course tutors:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

###The script imports and manipulates the following files from the above mentioned directory:

- 'features_info.txt': information about the variables used on the feature vector.

- 'features.txt': List of all features.

- 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.

- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.

- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.

- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.

- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

- 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 

###The script runs through a series of steps to:

- Import the raw training and test data sets into data frames in R and combine them into one
- Import the training and test label data sets into data frames in R and combine them into one
- Merges the combined label data into the combined raw data to create a combined data set
- Append the labels to the combined data
- Import the list of features and add it to the combined data set as column headings
- Import the labels for the activities and replace the activity IDs with these descriptive lables in the combined data set
- Filter the feature columns to a subset of the full list, including only the mean and standard deviation features
- For each combination of subject (count = 30) and activity (count = 6) to calculate an average of the grouped record set.
-### Note that at this stage R may generate the following error message
"There were 50 or more warnings (use warnings() to see the first 50)"
-### Note that the above warning message is an expected result of duplicate columns that are subsequently deleted. As such it does not affect the accuracy or final output of the script  
- Finally, the tidy data set generated by the above is exported into the working directory as a space delimited text file entitled 'tidy_data'.

The final data set is 88 columns wide by 181 rows long (including 1 header row). I chose to use a wide format for the data output as I believe this maintained flexibility, was a tidy format and was easy to understand on viewing the data.

Commit message:

Added the code book and added a reference to that code book in the README file

README.md, after:

#ProjectSamsungCoursera
=====================
This repo contains a single R script 'run_analysis.R' written as a project for the Coursera 'Getting and Cleaning Data' course. It also contains a code book in rich text format listing and describing the fields in the data set created by that script.

The script assumes that there is a folder/directory called 'UCI HAR Dataset' in the user's working directory containing the file structure and contents downloaded from the following location provided by the course tutors:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

###The script imports and manipulates the following files from the above mentioned directory:

- 'features_info.txt': information about the variables used on the feature vector.

- 'features.txt': List of all features.

- 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.

- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.

- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.

- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.

- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

- 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 

###The script runs through a series of steps to:

- Import the raw training and test data sets into data frames in R and combine them into one
- Import the training and test label data sets into data frames in R and combine them into one
- Merges the combined label data into the combined raw data to create a combined data set
- Append the labels to the combined data
- Import the list of features and add it to the combined data set as column headings
- Import the labels for the activities and replace the activity IDs with these descriptive lables in the combined data set
- Filter the feature columns to a subset of the full list, including only the mean and standard deviation features
- For each combination of subject (count = 30) and activity (count = 6) to calculate an average of the grouped record set.
-### Note that at this stage R may generate the following error message
"There were 50 or more warnings (use warnings() to see the first 50)"
-### Note that the above warning message is an expected result of duplicate columns that are subsequently deleted. As such it does not affect the accuracy or final output of the script  
- Finally, the tidy data set generated by the above is exported into the working directory as a space delimited text file entitled 'tidy_data'.

The final data set is 88 columns wide by 181 rows long (including 1 header row). I chose to use a wide format for the data output as I believe this maintained flexibility, was a tidy format and was easy to understand on viewing the data.
